---
title: "LIMIT"
linkTitle: "LIMIT"
weight: 5
description: >
  PostgreSQL LIMIT
---

{{% pageinfo %}}
**Summary**: in this tutorial, you’ll learn how to use PostgreSQL LIMIT clause to get a subset of rows generated by a query.
{{% /pageinfo %}}

## INTRODUCTION

PostgreSQL `LIMIT` is an optional clause of the `SELECT` statement that returns a subset of rows returned by the query.

The following illustrates the syntax of the `LIMIT` clause:

```
SELECT
  *
FROM
  table_name
LIMIT n;
```

The statement returns n rows generated by the query. If n is zero, the query returns an empty set. In case n is NULL, the query returns the same result set as omitting the LIMIT clause.

In case you want to skip a number of rows before returning the n rows, you use OFFSET clause placed after the LIMIT clause as the following statement:

```
SELECT
  *
FROM
  table
LIMIT n OFFSET m;
```

The statement first skips m rows before returning n rows generated by the query. If m is zero, the statement will work like without the `OFFSET` clause.

Because the order of the rows in the database table is unspecified, when you use the `LIMIT` clause, you should always use the `ORDER BY` clause to control the row order. If you don’t do so, you will get a result set whose rows are in an unspecified order.

If you use a large `OFFSET`, it might not be efficient because PostgreSQL still has to calculate the rows skipped by the `OFFSET` inside the database server, even though the skipped rows are not returned.

## Examples

This example uses the `LIMIT` clause to get the first 5 films ordered by film_id:

```
SELECT
  film_id,
  title,
  release_year
FROM
  film
ORDER BY
  film_id
LIMIT 5;
```

To retrieve 4 films starting from the forth one ordered by film_id, you use both `LIMIT` and `OFFSET` clauses as follows:

```
SELECT
  film_id,
  title,
  release_year
FROM
  film
ORDER BY
  film_id
LIMIT 4 OFFSET 3
```

We often use the `LIMIT` clause to get the number of highest or lowest items in a table. For example, to get the top 10 most expensive films, you sort the film by the rental rate in descending order and use the LIMIT clause to get the first 10 films. The following query illustrates the idea:

```
SELECT
  film_id,
  title,
  rental_rate
FROM
  film
ORDER BY
  rental_rate DESC
LIMIT 10;
```